## API
<details>
This Person api allows you to create, retrieve, update or delete a person's record in a mysql database.
The model of the Person entity is given below

{       
    
    "id": Int,
    "firstName": String? = "",            
    "lastName": String? = "",
    "age": String? = "",
    "track": String? = ""
}


where from the firstname down to the track are initialized as string types, and if no value is passed, an empty string value is automatically passed,
but the ID is an integer, which is autogenerated, and is a primary key, so it can never be empty.
</details>

## Methods/Endpoints
<details>
This API has five defined enpoints, accompanied by their methods

| Method |   Route   |             Description              |
|:------:|:---------:|:------------------------------------:|
|  POST  |   /api    |    Creates a new `Person` record     |
|  GET   |   /api    | Gets all the records in the database |
|  GET   | /api/{id} |     Gets a `Person` by their ID      |
| PATCH  | /api/{id} |      Modifies a `Person` by ID       |
| DELETE | /api/{id} |       Deletes a `Person` by ID       |


- **Post** `/api` -> This creates a new person record in the database, with the values given in  the request body.
When the request is successful, a string containing the lastname that was passed and the firstname that was passed, as well as the ID of the person's record is returned, since it is autogenerated
Request: 
```shell
curl -X POST --location "https://hng-stage-two-emp7.onrender.com/api" 
\ -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
\ -d "{ 
      "firstName": "Favour", 
      "lastName": "Ehiremhen",
       "age": "19", 
       "track" : "none" 
       }"
```
Response:
```shell
Ehiremhen Favour has been added to the db successfully and your id is 102
```
- **Get** `/api` -> This returns all the existing records in a database, when successful, an array of all the records is returned.
- **Get** `/api/{user_id}` -> This returns a specific person's record based on their id, which will be passed in the url as a path parameter.
When successful, the specific record is displayed.
When the call fails, for example, the id passed does not exist, a message is displayed saying "Result not found"
- **Patch** `/api/{user_id}` -> This updates the person's record. The id which is passed through the url as a path parameter is stored in a variable, and the db is searched for a matching record,
if the record does not exist, a "User not found" message is displayed.
If the record is found, however, the existing record is updated with whatever information is passed in the request body.
- **delete** `/api/{user_id}` -> This deletes a particular user's record based on the id passed in the url as a path parameter.
When successful, a response message pops up which says "User deleted sucessfully".
If unsuccessful, maybe the record to be deleted is not found, a response message is returned saying "User not found". 
</details>
